Contention 1— Backlash 
Trump hates the ICC 
Minsberg 2/7
Trump says the I.C.C. threatens national security pledging “tangible and significant consequences 
Accession is conceding to an anti-American institution 
Rivkin and Casey 99
the ICC is an unchecked invitation to restrain America threatens fundamental American ideals 
New jurisdiction undermines executive power causing lash out. 
Waldman 18
Trump will become enraged at courts that tell him what he can and can't do likely to strike back 

The options are complete weaponization of the court or full rejection. 
Court members can nominate prosecutors and judges, and these positions hold immense strength. 
Scheffer-03
If we were someday to ratify the Rome Statute we would have enormous influence in the nomination of judges and the prosecutor 

That’s devastating, as it hands the US the keys to power. 
Furger 24
The US soon adopted a pragmatic approach towards the court, supporting its activities depending on the circumstances and its interests.  arrest warrants for Israeli leaders demonstrates  the pattern of the US supporting the court when it suits it, prioritising its own foreign policy goals over wider  justice efforts. 
The ICC is especially vulnerable. 
Chong 14
The United States, given its superpower status, would exert disproportionate influence over the ICC  if it were to join. This could manifest in attempts to steer the court's prosecutorial decisions to align with U.S. foreign policy objectives, thereby compromising the ICC's independence. . The potential for the U.S. to manipulate the ICC underscores concerns about the court becoming an instrument of American hegemony rather than a bastion of universal justice. 
If the ICC allows U.S. influence to dictate its actions, it will create a system where accountability is determined by power, not justice. 
Wheeler 22
the Court can either change its mission to secure American membership or stay the course and continue to pursue its goal ending impunity . That would result in the development of a two-tiered jurisdictional structure at the ICC under which individual criminal responsibility would depend as much on the citizenship of the accused as the circumstances surrounding their alleged criminality. Such a change would fundamentally alter the Court’s mission by making full accountability for atrocious crimes an unattainable goal  the Court is better off without the United States  

The EU chose the ICC over Trump 
Dom 2/12
EU leaders hit back at Trump spoke in defence of the court, pledging to safeguard it 
So NATO’s first to go 
Nordstrom 24
Trump repeatedly wanted out even though contributions have improved, Trump isn’t happy 
He’ll exploit loopholes 
Gould et al. 24
Refuse support withholding ambassadors keeping troops from participating in exercises 
NATO collapses without American support 
Binnendijk et al. 24
 If Trump Pulls Out, the Alliance Would Fall Apart 
Crucially, 
Binnendijk 19
Russian aggression and misc Putin will seize land major wars start  decrease American military political and economic advantage Fight ISIS econ renationalization of Eu militaries alliances in Asia shaken China  control the South China Sea and occupy Taiwan collapse of LIO

Proliferation would occur
Axe 18
Trump  leaving NATO would force  countries that  lack nuclear arms to toss aside the  NPT and rush to acquire them in order to deter without  America 
This would cause war
Kroenig 15
Before MAD new nuclear states  lack second strike capability an incentive to use weapons first a preventive strike emphasizes use  em or lose  em pressures crises  result in  catastrophic nuclear exchange 

This leads to extinction
STARR 15 
A nuclear post war environment would be too cold and dark to grow food. Humans would vanish forever. 


Contention 2 is Israel
US support for Israel is high now 
Mathis 24
Trump fashioned himself as Israel's protector Trump signaled he’d give support his first-term is proof 
Aff isolates Israel
King 24
“Israel faces  isolation after Netanyahu   targeted for arrest by ICC”  “The U S rejects  court warrants a case for  ICC to sanction Israel criticism pit Biden against Euro countries who abide by warrants 
Indeed 
Balachandran 12/5
Netanyahu was "under unusual stress" over the warrant constitute deterioration in Israel international status Netanyahu wait for Trump to pull him out of this 
Perceptions go nuclear 
McConnell 17
Israel is terrified of being “alone” , any suspicion  U S is backing away incite Israel Israel needs constant assurance panicked Israel with 200 nuc s, could do extraordinary  damage Israel strike at will maintain the relationship unchanged 
And US restrains Israel 
Kingsley 24
Israel’s attack on Iran marked a dangerous phase but stopped short of war
After weeks of pressure from the US Israel avoided striking nuclear sites and oil production Netanyahu fears Iran efforts to build a nuc
Extinction 
CPI ’23 
Dangerous period, with rise in nucs Israel threatened Iran Hamas opportunity to act  Middle East hotspot for world war,Iran backed by Beijing and Moscow 

Crossaply Starr ‘15 
